#### 1. Merge
```
git merge --no-commit origin/master
```

#### 2. Commit
```
git checkout master
git pull 
git checkout -b {new branch name} origin/master
git add .
git commit -m "Do some changes"
git push origin {new branch name}
```

#### 3. Git clean
```
Git clean -n 查看那些文件可以被删除
Git clean -f  删除文件
git clean -fd 删除空目录
From <http://blog.csdn.net/u012057076/article/details/51025641>
```
#### 4. Git reset head <file>
```
Git reset <file>: unstage 文件
```

#### 5. Git checkout
```
--将unstage中的.config/.inc/versions.xml文件undo 掉
Git checkout .config/.inc/versions.xml 
```

#### 6. Git branch -d 删除local branch
```
git branch -D de/v-dicui/ISSForGPCleanV11
删除Remote branch：
git push origin --delete <branch_name>
```

#### 7. Git log
```
Git log -
Git show {commitid}
```

#### 8. git merge --abort 放弃merge
```
git merge --abort 放弃merge
```
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44048982/abort-a-git-merge
 
#### 9. git gc --prune=now
[git-error-on-git-pull-unable-to-update-local-ref](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10068640/git-error-on-git-pull-unable-to-update-local-ref/27278221)    
Error Message:    
cannot lock ref 'refs/remotes/origin/dev/zhixianc/RCSU': 'refs/remotes/origin/dev/zhixianc' exists;     
cannot create  'refs/remotes/origin/dev/zhixianc/RCSU' From ***********************    
 ! [new branch]          dev/zhixianc/RCSU -> origin/dev/zhixianc/RCSU  (unable to update local ref)    

This removes any duplicate reference objects which should fix the issue.
```
git gc --prune=now
```
Here are a few links where you can learn more about git references and pruning :
```
git tip of the week
git-prune documentation
git references
git remote prune origin
```
[git-remote-prune vs git-prune vs git-fetch-prune](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/20106712/what-are-the-differences-between-git-remote-prune-git-prune-git-fetch-prune)
 
#### 10. git remote show
```
-- show the remote url
git remote show origin
```
 
13. git prune
```
git remote prune origin 
git fetch --prune
```
> There are potentially three versions of every remote branch:
>
> The actual branch on the remote repository Your snapshot of that branch locally (stored under refs/remotes/...) 
> And a local branch that might be tracking the remote branch git prune This removes objects that are no longer being referenced, not references. 
When you create a local branch. That means there's a ref named random_branch_I_want_deleted that refers to some objects that represent the history of that branch.     
>So, by definition, git prune will not remove random_branch_I_want_deleted. 
It's really a way to delete data that has accumulated in Git but is not being referenced by anything useful. 
In general, it doesn't affect your view of any branches.
git remote prune origin
git fetch --prune 
	Both commander operate on references under refs/remotes/... (I'll refer to these as remote references). 
	It doesn't affect local branches. 
	The git remote version is useful if you only want to remove remote references under a particular remote. Otherwise, the two do exactly the same thing. 
	So, in short, git remote prune and git fetch --prune operate on number 2 above.
 
 
 14. show the track branch
	git branch -vv -a
	git remote show origin
	
	From <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4950725/how-can-i-see-which-git-branches-are-tracking-which-remote-upstream-branch> 
15. Force add the file
	git add Xom.Gci.Lvf.Ifcs.Ui\XOMFCSUI.pfx -f
	
16. get the repository URL from local
	Git remote show origin 
	
17. tag
	1. Show tag
		a. Show tag list
		Git tag
		b. Filter tag by name
		Git tag -l 'v1.*'
		c. Show tag detail info
		Git show {tag name}
	
	2. Create tag
		a. Create lightweight tag
		Git tag {tag name}
		b. Create annotated tag
		Git tag -a {tag name} -m {more info}
		c. Create tag for history commit
			i. Git log --pretty=oneline //list the commit history
			ii. Git tag -a {tag name} {commit id}
		
	3. Push tag
	Git push origin {tag name}
	
	4. Delete tag
		a. Delete local tag
		Git tag -d {tag name}
		b. Delete remote tag
		Git push remote :ref/tags/{tag name}
		
	5. Checkout tag
		a. Checkout tag
		Git checkout {tag name}
		b. Create local branch mapping to tag
		Git checkout -b {new branch name} {tag name}
	
	

	Git tag 
